.\" $Id: monshow.1 1.4 Tue, 31 Jul 2001 15:54:49 -0400 trockij $
.TH monshow 1 "$Date: Tue, 31 Jul 2001 15:54:49 -0400 $" Linux "monshow"
.SH NAME
monshow \- show operational status of mon server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monshow
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-showall ]
.RB [ \-\-full ]
.RB [ \-\-disabled ]
.RB [ \-\-detail
.IR group,service ]
.RB [ \-\-view
.IR name ]
.RB [ \-\-auth ]
.RB [ \-\-login
.IR user ]
.RB [ \-\-old ]
.RB [ \-\-server
.IR hostname ]
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR portnum ]
.RB [ \-\-prot
.IR protocol ]
.RB [ \-\-rcfile
.IR file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B monshow
show the operational status of the
.B mon
server. Both command-line and CGI interfaces are available.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
show help
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-showall
Do not read configuration file, and show operational status of all groups
and services.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-full
Instead of showing only failed services, show all services no matter the
state.
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\-detail\  group,service
Display detailed information for
.I group
and
.IR service .
This includes description, detailed output of the monitor,
dependency information, and more. When invoked via CGI,
append "detail=group,service" to get detail for a service.
.\"
.TP
.BI "--view " name
Display a pre-configured view. When invoked via CGI, supply
the arguments "view=name" in the URL, or by using this technique:
"http://monhost/monshow.cgi/name". For security reasons,
leading forward slashes and imbedded ".."s are removed from the
view name.
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-auth
Authenticate client to the mon server.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-disabled
Show disabled groups, services, and hosts. The default is to not show
anything which is disabled, but this may be overridden by the config file.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI "--server " hostname
Connect to the mon server on host
.IR hostname .
.I hostname
can be either the name of a host or an IP address.
If this name is not supplied by this argument, then the environment variable
.I MONHOST
is used, if it exists. Otherwise,
.I monshow
will fail.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\-login \ username
When authenticating, use
.IR username .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\-port \ portnum
Connect to the server on
.BR portnum .
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\-prot \ protocol
Sets the protocol to
.IR protocol .
The protocol must match the format "1.2.3". If unset, the default
supplied by the Mon::Client module is used. Do not use this parameter
unless you really know what you are doing.
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.B \-\-old
Use the old 0.37 protocol and port number (32777).
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\-rcfile \ file
Use configuration file
.I file
instead of ~/.monshowrc.

.SH CGI INVOCATION
If
.B monshow
is invoked with the "REQUEST_METHOD" environment variable
set, then CGI invocation is assumed. In that case,
.B monshow
gathers variables and commands submitted via the
POST method and QUERY_STRING. Command-line options
are ignored for security reasons.

All reports which are produced via the web interface have a text mode
equivalent.

.SH VIEWS

A view is a pre-defined configuration supplied to
.BR monshow .
Views can be used to generate different reports of the status
of certain services for different audiences. They are especially useful
if you are monitoring hundreds of things with mon, and you need to
see only a subset of the overall operational status.
For example, the web server admins can see a report which
has only the web server statuses, and the file server admins can
have their own report which shows only the servers. Users can customize
their own views by editing their own configurations.

Views are stored as files in a system-wide directory, typically
.IR /etc/mon/monshow ,
where each file specifies one view. If this path is not suitable
for any reason, it can be changed by modifying the
.B $VIEWPATH
variable in the
.B monshow
script.

When invoking
.B monshow
from the command line, the view to display is specified by the
.BI "--view=" name
argument. 

In the case of CGI invocation, views can be specified by
appending either
.I "?view=name"
or
.I "/name"
to the URL. For example, the following are equivalent:

.I "http://monhost/monshow.cgi?view=test"
.br
.I "http://monhost/monshow.cgi/test"

If a view is not specified, then a default configuration will be
loaded from
.I "$HOME/.monshowrc"
(command-line invocation) or
.I "cgi-path/.monshowrc"
(CGI invocation).

.SH VIEW CONFIGURATION FILE

The view file contains a list of which services
to display, how to display them, and a number of other parameters.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a # (pound) are ignored.

.TP
.BI "watch" " group"
Include the status of all the services for "group".
.\"
.TP
.BI "service" " group service"
Include the status of the service specified by
.I group
and
.IR service .
.\"
.P
If no
.B watch
or
.B service
configuration lines are present, then the status of all groups
and services are displayed.
.\"
.TP
.B "set show-disabled"
This has the same effect as using
the
.B \-\-disabled
option.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set host" " hostname"
Query the mon server
.IR hostname .
.\"
.TP
.BI "set port" " number"
The TCP port which the mon server is listening on.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set prot" " protocol"
Set the protocol. This probably should not be used unless
you really know what you're doing.
.\"
.TP
.B "set full"
Show everything disabled, all failures, all successes, and all
untested services.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set bg" " color"
Background color for the CGI report. The value of this
parameter should resemble "d5d5d5" (without the quotes).
.\"
.TP
.BI "set bg-ok" " color"
Background color for services which are in an "ok" state.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set bg-fail" " color"
Background color for services which are failing.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set bg-untested" " color"
Background color for services which have yet to be tested.
.\"
.TP
.BI "set refresh" " seconds"
For CGI output, set the frequency that the report reloads.
The default is to not reload.
.\"
.TP
.BI "summary-len" " len"
For CGI output, set the maximum length of the summary output
to display. Summary text which exceeds
.I len
will be truncated and replaced with ellipses.
.\"
.TP
.BI "link" " group service URL"
For the CGI report, make a link to
.I URL
at the bottom of the detail report for
.I "group/service"
for more information.
.\"
.TP
.BI "link-text" " group service"
Insert all HTML up until a line beginning with "END"
after the link specified
with the
.B "link"
setting.
.\"
.TP
.B "set html-header"
Lines after this statement, continuing up until a line beginning
with the word "END" will be displayed after the "</head>" tag
in the CGI output. Use this to display custom headers, including
images and other fancy things.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.IP MONHOST
The hostname of the server which runs the
.B mon
process.

.SH SEE ALSO
mon(8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the email address below.
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Trocki <trockij@transmeta.com>
